Meet Boohoo, PrettyLittleThing and Missguided, the Manchester-based online companies threatening to take over fashion retailing with inexpensive, brash clothes that are more likely to have been inspired by a reality TV star’s clubbing outfit than the catwalk.
Last week, Boohoo bought a controlling stake in PrettyLittleThing, the startup founded by the sons of Boohoo’s co-founder, Mahmud Kamani. With PrettyLittleThing valued at only £5m thanks to an option clause dating back to Boohoo’s flotation prospectus in 2014, the deal was as much of a bargain for shareholders as the £8 clingy dresses its shoppers love.
“The deal provides Boohoo with a complementary brand at a really attractive valuation,” says Phil Adams, chief executive of GCA Altium, who advised Boohoo. The purchase gives Boohoo shareholders – who have seen the value of their holdings quadruple this year – a slice of one of the fastest-growing young fashion brands in the UK at the moment.
The driving force behind PrettyLittleThing is 28-year-old Umar Kamani, who started the brand with his brothers in 2012. Sales surged 400% to £17m in the 12 months to end of February 2016 as its target market of teenagers and twentysomethings snapped up edgy fashions created with so-called “influencers” like Lionel Richie’s 18-year-old model daughter, Sofia. Sales are expected to ratchet up by another 150% this year.
Online fashion aimed at young women is currently the sweet spot in a tough fashion market, because low prices keep wardrobe updates within reach of even the tightest budgets.
“The teenage wallet has its limitations,” explains Boohoo’s joint chief executive, Carol Kane. “We don’t have a high returns rate: our shoppers don’t want to tie up their money. If they are spending £20 on a dress they won’t spend £40 ordering two sizes. They don’t have that kind of money. It is quite different to the middle market.”
Kane adds that key to PrettyLittleThing’s success is the age of the founders: “Umar is from the same generation as his customers.” That means he knows his peers are glued permanently to their phones, scrolling through social networks. They want to be able to flick through a digital wardrobe packed with thousands of bodycon dresses, jumpsuits and thigh-high boots while they are at the bus stop, thinking about what they are going to wear on their next night out.
She describes the Boohoo brand, which has a broader clothing offering, as “more inclusive” than its younger, sister brand. “The Pretty Little Thing shopper is sassy, glamorous and body confident,” she says. “I would definitely say she is confident.”
While this wave of digital fashion businesses, which includes rivals such as Missguided and Public Desire, look like overnight success stories, they have generations of experience to draw on as the founders are typically scions of successful clothing importers based in the region. Mahmud Kamani’s father Abdullah, who escaped war-torn Kenya in the 60s to start a new life in England, started out selling handbags on a market stall but went on to become a successful high street clothing supplier. The family reaped £240m from the IPO in 2014.
“Online fashion retailers don’t have the legacy of stores to worry about,” says Boohoo chairman Peter Williams. “If they get traction with customers, as both Boohoo and Pretty Little Thing has done, they can grow very quickly.”
“Being able to source great product at a sensible price has been one of Boohoo’s great strengths,” he adds. “Celebrity trends can be interpreted very quickly and the stock turns [over] at a fantastic rate ... it’s a very dynamic model.”
Missguided is another Manchester-based brand enjoying breakneck growth. In the year to March, its chief executive, Nitin Passi, says sales increased by a third to £117m, and that the business is currently enjoying growth of more than 60%. Profits were down, though, as it invested in a new headquarters in Salford Quays and warehousing, and went on a hiring spree, recruiting 336 head office staff in the last 18 months.
“This enables us to scale the business,” explains Passi. “We are going after growth in the UK and internationally.”
Passi, whose father is a successful clothing supplier, started the site in 2009 when he was in his mid-20s. Rather than describe its model as “fast fashion”, he prefers “rapid fashion”, as 300 lines land on the site every week and it has the ability to get a new design on sale within 10 days. Missguided has recently opened its first store in London with plans to open more around the country in 2017.
He insists the business is not built on his family connections, as their expertise is in dressing a different demographic. “I borrowed £50,000 from my dad in 2009 and paid him back in 2010,” he says. Missguided is based in Manchester mainly because Passi’s uncle offered him free office space at the back of one of his factories to get started.
Missguided has sought to differentiate itself from rivals with edgy branding that includes the promise to “create killer garms for the dreamers, believers and night lovers”.
“A lot of retailers were playing it quite safe so we decided to be a bit more real in the way we spoke to our customers,” says Passi. The 34-year-old entrepreneur agrees competition is hotting up but adds: “In the zero to £20m [sales bracket] there are a lot of players, but above £50m not so many. We focus on the customer, not the competition.”
Manchester’s fashion stars are burning bright at the moment but Williams adds a cautionary note: “The internet means if a brand has momentum it can grow very quickly. Obviously you don’t hear about the ones that don’t make it.”
You’ll have seen the billboards. Usually on the tube or side of a bus, usually featuring diverse models wearing something revealing, sheer and sparkly, and usually with the price writ large on the poster. You might not have bought anything from Boohoo or Missguided or Pretty Little Thing, but that’s because they’re not for you. These brands are for Generation Z. Cheap, disposable, ethically dubious and arbitrarily named, this new wave of online-only retailers mark a shift in how we’re shopping and what we’re buying, and prove that superfast fashion is only getting faster.
Their success comes down a series of tactics. The Missguided site uses terms like “sick” and “fire” alongside expletives and puns that speak to a very specific Snapchatting age-group. It also features Amina Blue, fashion’s current It model (she’s 5’1”, mixed race, and has appeared on the Kanye West’s Yeezy catwalk). Boohoo, meanwhile, has Sofia Richie (daughter of Lionel, famous for being photographed with Justin Bieber) as its campaign star. Both models speak to post-Instagram girls.
Is this merely a triumph of marketing over clothes? Not likely. Shopping has morphed from a high-street industry based on accessibility and affordability to an increasingly online model which encourages risk and whim. These clothes are so cheap you can afford to risk buying them without trying them.
Ever-increasing prices at Topshop have created a gap in the market for cheaper newcomers. This used to be Asos, and arguably still is, but the online retailer that is the largest in the UK has also inspired smaller, cheaper, younger versions in a similar mould. What they do is different to, say, Topshop or Zara, because the clothes are geared towards millennials and Generation Z, and also because they’re less catwalk-led and more inspired by the red carpet.
If we’re buying online it’s because we’re time-poor and we want a quick solution, whether it’s a last-minute party or something deeper and psychological, and these brands fill that hole.
So if there’s no term for the opposite of “investment purchase”, we need to come up with one, because these brands are taking over.
Morwenna Ferrier
What should I wear to my boss’s Christmas party tomorrow night?
Zzzzzip! Record scratch! Sorry to interrupt, folks: normal service will be resumed next week, but this week we celebrate the festive season by going through the best and worst fashion moments of the year. Honestly, it’s what Jesus wanted us to do. He said so, right after he ticked off John the Baptist for his hopelessly passé robe. “Bias cut is soooo BC, John,” he said, as the two of them strolled along the river Jordan. Maybe. I might be less clear on my New Testament than my Vogue.
Let’s start with the downers. Well, it was a strange year. Breasts, for a start, we consigned to the bin. Vogue decreed that cleavage was “over”, and the adoring shots of Elizabeth Debicki’s frequently bra-strap-free back in The Night Manager seemed to confirm this. Rather sweetly, Vogue tried to pretend that theirs was a feminist declaration: “The tits will not be out for the lads. Nor anyone else, for that matter.” How marvellous! No longer will women suffer the tyranny of Eva Herzigova because a whole new body shape will be celebrated. Hurrah for the inclusivity of fashion! Go feminist fashion! Bog off, boobs!
Wait, what’s that noise? I think it might be a giant “EXCEPT” coming down the pipeline. EXCEPT perhaps it is because Vogue lives in an airless world populated only by the underfed and underweight but it seemed, rather sweetly, to have forgotten that not all women need Wonderbras to manage more than a C-cup. Breasts are not, in fact, just some novelty accessory we’ve been dabbling in, like Carrie necklaces or turbans. Going unsupported is not an option for some of us, at least not without giving ourselves two black eyes. So what to do for us, the unlucky few left with unfashionable breasts that can’t simply be slammed away in a drawer? One broadsheet had the answer: “How to dress when you hate your breasts,” read its headline. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is I believe what’s known as coming full circle.
We also hit peak athleisure, with the arrival of Chloé’s £1,000 tracksuit, a joke straight out of Nathan Barley. There was also peak squad, with various female celebrities clamouring on social media to show off their popularity, holidays and fat-free bodies, from Taylor Swift’s overly Instagrammed 4 July party to Cara Delevingne’s hyperbolically Instagrammed Maldives holiday. Confusingly, we also hit peak peak, so it is of utmost importance that someone come up with the 2017 word for something being over (“basic” is definitely over, as, incidentally, is over).
All right, quit your complaining already, woman! What has been good this year? Glad you ask, I reply to myself. Well, by some measure, my favourite fashion(ish) news story of the year was the undoubtedly totally true one about Kate Moss dumping her boyfriend, the great great grandson of Otto von Bismarck, after he switched off the Wi-Fi in Moss’s home during an argument, meaning her teenage daughter couldn’t use Snapchat and Instagram. You can imagine how that went down with a 14-year-old. Try to find one element in that story that doesn’t bring you some modicum of amusement. I know! You literally can’t! Anyway, young Von Bismarck and Moss are back together so not only is this story hilarious, it also has a happy ending. Whether Moss’s daughter feels the return of the Wi-Fi killer is a happy ending, however, is as yet unknown.
Otherwise, the year was really about two labels – Vetements and Gucci. My much-beloved colleague Jess Cartner-Morley wrote about Vetements’ year last week, so indulge me instead in my Gucci obsession. Put it this way: there are two kinds of fashion fans: the cool ones, and the ones who get distracted with funny things such as embroidered leopards and purple shoes. If you are cool, you like Vetements, and if you are more in the latter camp then you are a Gucci person and God bless you and Gucci’s designer, Alessandro Michele, for it. Fashion hasn’t been this fun since Marc Jacobs used to be fun.
The return of the 90s has been quite amusing-slash-traumatic for those of us who remember the 90s very, very clearly. There’s something about seeing a teenager in a slip dress and jumper to make you muse on your youth. And there’s nothing like realising said teenager wasn’t even alive in the 90s to make you realise how long ago the 90s were.
Finally, I’d like to end this retrospective column by bidding a sad farewell to a fashion item I very much hoped would be a part of all of our lives for the next four to eight years. I speak, of course, of Hillary Clinton’s pantsuits. Remember them? One in every colour! So cheering, so dependable. Never mind your politics (although you’re reading the Guardian, so who are we kidding here?), wouldn’t you rather be seeing those pantsuits on the news than that orange face and tonsorial monstrosity? My heart hurts just thinking about those pantsuits, to be honest. So forget about those Hadid sisters: 2016 was about the pantsuit. But not 2017, alas.
Prada, one of the world’s most expensive fashion brands, is making little effort to show that its goods are free of forced labour, according to a new report.
An assessment (pdf) of the quality and transparency of efforts by 20 major apparel companies to safeguard against forced labour from their supply chains, undertaken by KnowTheChain, an accountability initiative, gave Prada a score of nine out of 100.
The Italian luxury brand, which charges hundreds of pounds for its bags and clothing, was one of three companies that scored less than 25 out of 100. The other two were China’s top shoe firm, Belle International Holdings, and Shenzhou International Group Holdings, another Chinese company.
Companies were ranked by KnowTheChain on a range of indicators including auditing processes, worker recruitment and labour rights, using information provided by the brands and data available on public platforms.
Other luxury brands also returned modest scores, including Ralph Lauren and Hugo Boss, with 45 and 46 out of 100 respectively. According to KnowTheChain, companies scoring more than 46 are considered to have taken “initial steps” to show awareness and commitment to addressing human trafficking and forced labour in their supply chains.
Some companies that fared badly in the study did so because they failed to provide information about efforts they may be making to safeguard against forced labour.
“It would be hard to fathom a company taking steps to address slavery in its supply chains and then failing or refusing to disclose it publicly,” said Kilian Moote, project director of KnowTheChain. “I think what we can deduce from the rankings is that some companies have a long way to go before they are adequately addressing the risk of the worst forms of labour abuses in the makings of their products.”
Hugo Boss acknowledged that it had supplied KnowTheChain with information but said that, with dialogue ongoing, it preferred not to offer a statement at the present time.
High-street companies scored far more highly in the study than luxury brands. Adidas (81), Gap (77) and H&M (69), all of which have robust systems to check their supply chains for slavery, were among those that received the highest ratings.
All companies fared badly on worker recruitment and rights, with many brands failing to put any practices in place for workers to air grievances or form unions.
The International Labour Organisation considers the apparel industry to be at high risk of forced labour and other forms of slavery. There are an estimated 75 million people working in the global garment sector, three-quarters of whom are women.
Goods produced in exploitative conditions include cotton. The US State Department has estimated that forced labour exists in nine countries producing 65% of the world’s cotton, including China, India and Uzbekistan.
The high levels of public transparency and reporting of anti-slavery initiatives among high-street brands follow years of damaging exposés into labour abuses connected to such companies
The luxury fashion world has come under less scrutiny than “fast-fashion” high-street brands. Prada, Ralph Lauren and Hugo Boss also received low ratings in this year’s fashion transparency index, which used similar indicators to assess how well brands were doing at ensuring their products remain free of labour abuses.
“Two conclusions can be made from low-scoring brands, like Prada. Either they are taking excellent action in secret, or these high-status brands don’t yet have the safeguards in place to reassure their customers, and appear to be falling behind their competitors,” said Phil Bloomer, executive director of the Business & Human Rights Resource Centre.
“Top-ranking brands like Adidas and Gap have listened to workers and activists in their supply chains. Their scores in this ranking show it is commercially viable and ethically imperative to seek to eliminate modern slavery in supply chains.”
