Luxury timber pods connect to create a house that brings the outside in
Is it OK to have a Christmas party at Hooters? How can I tell my co-workers their Halloween costumes are racist? I accidentally hugged the CEO. How embarrassed should I be?
These are the kinds of questions that often land in Allison Green’s mailbox. Green is the manager behind the popular Ask a Manager blog, which she launched almost 10 years ago while working at a not-for-profit organization in Washington DC and now attracts 2 million visitors a month.
It all happened on a whim, she says. Frustrated with seeing people “both in the hiring process but also internally within the office” make bad choices, Green decided to start a blog.
“The common denominator with all of this stuff is that you don’t understand how your manager or your interviewer is thinking. I thought there is a place to give insight into how managers and how job interviewers think. And really on a whim – my boyfriend had gone out and I was bored – I put together the Ask a Manager blog,” she says. “I didn’t think anybody would read it. I had no idea how I would go about getting an audience. I figured I would do it for maybe three to six months and get it out of my system and then I would be done and move on with my life.”
Yet people did find it. Of the 2 million visitors she gets a month, about half have never visited the site before. “I am not clear on how that happened,” she laughs. “I didn’t do any SEO [search engine optimization] or any of that stuff you are supposed to do to build an audience. I think I got really lucky with the timing. Somehow people found it and started sending in questions.”
Green now receives 50 to 60 questions a day, answering just a fraction. The thing that sets her blog apart, she says, is the ability to answer a question about specific situations with several twists.
“If someone doesn’t read the column, they might think: ‘Work advice? That sounds really boring.’ But when you read it, it’s not really just work advice. It’s interpersonal advice. It’s advice about your own personal issues that are causing problems for you, maybe in your career. That’s so much more interesting than talking about how to make your résumé,” she explains. “There is real hunger out there for a place that people can go to ask really nuanced questions.”
“What she had done for me is really drill in my head that you have to confront the reality of your situation, not what you wish your situation were,” she says.
When selecting letters from readers to answer, Green often looks for awkwardness. “There is a really uncomfortable thing going on and everyone feels awkward about it and the only way you are going to get it to stop is if you are willing to suck it up and say something that no one wants to because it’s a horrible conversation to have,” says Green.
One of her favorite letters was from someone who worked at an office where the receptionist kept hugging everyone who came to the office. “And not just a quick hug, like a full body-hug where she would hold on for like a full minute. People were really uncomfortable and no one knew what to say to her and they were worried their appointments didn’t want to come to their office any more,” she says. Her advice: talk to the receptionist. Have the awkward conversation and move on.
“Some of the drama is very soap opera-ish. I have a real taste for the weird and so if I get a crazy letter, it goes straight to the top of my list. I love the crazy letters. I always wonder: ‘Am I pushing the balance too far in that direction?’ But people really like it. It makes it so much more interesting. I have people say to me all the time that reading the column makes them appreciate their own workplace and their own boss.”
Much has changed in the job market since 2007 – the unemployment rate went up, then down. Co-working spaces became trendy and the threat of robots taking over our jobs became slightly more real. Yet at the core of it, people still worry about the same stuff, says Green.
“The most common stuff is: ‘I have a terrible boss, what do I do? I want my co-worker to stop doing this annoying thing but I don’t want to say anything to them about it, is there a magic pill?’ Those haven’t changed and probably will never change. There is stuff that changed around the edges. A year after I started we plunged into a recession, and that had a huge impact on the job market, and so the nature of the questions that I was getting for a few years was upsetting and stressful, really. There were people who had been out of work for years,” she says.
“I am still talking to millennials who can’t get job in their field because when they graduated, they graduated into a terrible recession and they have been working at Starbucks for several years and now no one will hire them for the job they got a degree in. I have also seen things getting better post-recession. People are also more willing to leave bad situations than they were in the middle years that I was writing.”
There have been other changes too. There are more questions about telecommuting and perks that disappeared during the recession and haven’t yet made it back. There are also a lot more questions about animal-friendly offices and how to navigate them.
“The most interesting was probably from someone who went to work in an office that was dog-friendly and a bunch of people brought their dogs in and she had really debilitating allergies. The company did not want to work with her on it and legally they had to accommodate her. But people were pissed. People felt like they had come to the company specifically because it was dog friendly and she was ruining it. It became a very hostile environment for her,” Green explains. “She ultimately had to leave over it because there was such a huge clash of her interest against their interests. You can kind of see where they are coming from too – it’s their culture.”
For Green, who at 43 has spent most of her life working at and with not-for-profit groups, doling out advice in a friendly conversational manner – (“It’s sort of like answering an email from a friend,” she says) – feels like working for a cause, “doing good in the world”.
“I think as long as it continues to feel like that, I’ll keep doing that,” she says.
Luxury timber pods connect to create a house that brings the outside in
The Co-op is recalling chocolate Santas after batteries were found inside two of them.
The retailer said there were two “alleged tampering incidents” involving the hollow milk chocolate figures, which sell for £1.
It has informed the police and Food Standards Agency and started a national product recall.
There was no indication of any blackmail demand or threat, a spokesman said.
The Co-op has sold 165,000 of the German-made Santas, which are available from other retailers, and has advised people not to eat them.
The Santas with batteries were found in two separate locations, some distance apart.
A Co-op spokesman said: “The health and safety of our customers is our top priority. We are concerned about two separate instances of alleged product tampering involving our hollow milk chocolate Santa foil figures, which have been found to contain a small battery inside.
“As a result we have begun a UK-wide product recall. The police and Food Standards Agency are being notified. Customers with one of these products should not eat it but call our customer relations team for a full refund.”
Anyone who is concerned should call 0800 0686 727 for free. The Co-op said no other products were affected.
 The trees came first – five ancient oaks amid which this trinity of pods in Beaminster, Dorset, has arisen in homage. When it rains the stainless steel gutters water said trees. Less fortunate oaks were sacrificed to construct the cladding, floors and the decked areas that wrap round each pod and extend the main rooms into the garden when the glass doors are open. The impression is of three humble holiday cabins floating just above the gravel on this hilltop. Look closer and they’re connected by glass and wood walkways. Photographs by Humberts
Three long-serving primary school cleaners, who went on strike over claims their wages and conditions were cut when a private company took over the contract, have been sacked days before Christmas.
The women – Lesley Leake, Marice Hall and Karen McGee – sparked a debate over outsourcing when they went on strike for 14 weeks after their school in West Yorkshire was turned into an academy earlier this year.
Known as the “Kinsley cleaners”, the women said they had their wages cut from £7.85 an hour to the minimum wage of £7.20 once the contract switched from Wakefield council to C&D Cleaning in April.
The women, who between them have more than 28 years’ experience cleaning Kinsley primary school, returned to work earlier this month. But on Thursday they were told they had been sacked.
Jeremy Corbyn said he was angered by the news of the cleaners’ dismissal. “When I met them, they explained how their wages were cut following the outsourcing of their contracts to a private company,” the Labour leader said.
“Outsourcing is bad for our public services and workers. The cleaners’ jobs must be brought back in-house with fair pay and conditions. The race to the bottom in wages and working conditions faced by huge numbers of workers right across Britain is a national disgrace and Labour would put a stop to it.”
Dave Prentis, the Unison general secretary, said the women had bravely taken action to protect their wages and employment rights. “To then sack them just days before Christmas is heartless in the extreme,” he said, adding that the union would be consulting lawyers over the decision to dismiss them.
Speaking to the Guardian in October, Leake – who has two adult children and a second job – said her pension, sick pay and holiday entitlement had also been hit by the outsourcing. “The first month [under C&D Cleaning] when we got our payslips we just thought it could be a few teething problems, but the second month it was the same, and it just went on and on,” she said.
The women said they had tried to raise the issues with C&D Cleaning but were “fobbed off”. In the end the three got in touch with their union, Unison, but C&D Cleaning, based in nearby Barnsley, was reluctant to discuss the women’s cases.
In one email seen by the Guardian, the company’s head of human resources, Nick Thorpe, replied to Unison: “I understand … the impact for you as an organisation when members realise that we are no longer living in the 1980s and they question the actual value of union membership when you have no say, power or influence over their employer.”
The three women decided to go on strike, staging their first picket outside the school at the beginning of September. “It was a bit scary at first because none of us have ever done anything like this, but we didn’t know what else we could do,” said Leake. “It wasn’t just the money we were losing, it was the stress that was affecting us and our families as well.”
A statement from C&D Cleaning read: “The employees were invited to a disciplinary hearing on an earlier date in December to respond to allegations of gross misconduct. At the employees’ request, the hearing took place on 19 December 2016 as their chosen Unison representative was not available on the earlier date.
“Full details of the allegations were provided to the employees in advance of the hearing. The employees and their representative were given full opportunity to put their cases. The outcome of the hearing was termination of employment. The individuals have been informed of their right of appeal. The company will not comment further at this stage so as not prejudice any internal process.”
Jon Trickett, the local MP, said all the “three courageous women” had done was stand up for their right to work. “With only days until Christmas, it looks like Scrooge has been brought back to life from Victorian times and ruined the festive period for three families in my constituency,” he said.
He said the women’s experiences were unfortunately common. “Our country needs better pay, better conditions and better corporate governance to make sure that all employees are treated fairly,” he said. “It is also time that we stopped outsourcing services paid for by the taxpayer to rogue employers.”
Barter has been going on for thousands of years, but as Mark Williams, managing director of trading platform Bartercard UK puts it, “gone are the days when you swapped a sheep for a goat”.
New technology, Williams explains, means the potential of barter is expanding fast: it’s no longer about one business swapping its products on an ad hoc basis: instead a company may barter across a diverse range of sectors, including internationally – and receive substantial value back in return.
If you’re an office furniture business, for example, and have some stock left over, it can be hard to find a taker for the last few chairs and desks. As members of a barter scheme, such as Bartercard, the furniture business will sell the chairs at the retail price for “trade pounds”, which have the same value as sterling. It then gets to spend the pounds it has earned on other items within the membership group. This might be restaurant meals, accountancy advice, tickets for the races or nights in a fancy hotel.
In this way, barter has the potential to free up a company’s cashflow, even out the peaks and troughs of demand and squeeze more value out of goods or services that wouldn’t otherwise be sold.
“We’re not there to take away any of the current cash business, but to sit alongside it,” Williams says.
