Love this dress!  it's sooo pretty.  i happened to find it in a store, and i'm glad i did bc i never would have ordered it online bc it's petite.  i bought a petite and am 5'8".  i love the length on me- hits just a little below the knee.  would definitely be a true midi on someone who is truly petite.I had such high hopes for this dress and really wanted it to work for me. i initially ordered the petite small (my usual size) but i found this to be outrageously small. so small in fact that i could not zip it up! i reordered it in petite medium, which was just ok. overall, the top half was comfortable and fit nicely, but the bottom half had a very tight under layer and several somewhat cheap (net) over layers. imo, a major design flaw was the net over layer sewn directly into the zipper - it cLove this dress!  it's sooo pretty.  i happened to find it in a store, and i'm glad i did bc i never would have ordered it online bc it's petite.  i bought a petite and am 5'8".  i love the length on me- hits just a little below the knee.  would definitely be a true midi on someone who is truly petite.I had such high hopes for this dress and really wanted it to work for me. i initially ordered the petite small (my usual size) but i found this to be outrageously small. so small in fact that i could not zip it up! i reordered it in petite medium, which was just ok. overall, the top half was comfortable and fit nicely, but the bottom half had a very tight under layer and several somewhat cheap (net) over layers. imo, a major design flaw was the net over layer sewn directly into the zipper - it cLove this dress!  it's sooo pretty.  i happened to find it in a store, and i'm glad i did bc i never would have ordered it online bc it's petite.  i bought a petite and am 5'8".  i love the length on me- hits just a little below the knee.  would definitely be a true midi on someone who is truly petite.I had such high hopes for this dress and really wanted it to work for me. i initially ordered the petite small (my usual size) but i found this to be outrageously small. so small in fact that i could not zip it up! i reordered it in petite medium, which was just ok. overall, the top half was comfortable and fit nicely, but the bottom half had a very tight under layer and several somewhat cheap (net) over layers. imo, a major design flaw was the net over layer sewn directly into the zipper - it cLove this dress!  it's sooo pretty.  i happened to find it in a store, and i'm glad i did bc i never would have ordered it online bc it's petite.  i bought a petite and am 5'8".  i love the length on me- hits just a little below the knee.  would definitely be a true midi on someone who is truly petite.I had such high hopes for this dress and really wanted it to work for me. i initially ordered the petite small (my usual size) but i found this to be outrageously small. so small in fact that i could not zip it up! i reordered it in petite medium, which was just ok. overall, the top half was comfortable and fit nicely, but the bottom half had a very tight under layer and several somewhat cheap (net) over layers. imo, a major design flaw was the net over layer sewn directly into the zipper - it cLove this dress!  it's sooo pretty.  i happened to find it in a store, and i'm glad i did bc i never would have ordered it online bc it's petite.  i bought a petite and am 5'8".  i love the length on me- hits just a little below the knee.  would definitely be a true midi on someone who is truly petite.I had such high hopes for this dress and really wanted it to work for me. i initially ordered the petite small (my usual size) but i found this to be outrageously small. so small in fact that i could not zip it up! i reordered it in petite medium, which was just ok. overall, the top half was comfortable and fit nicely, but the bottom half had a very tight under layer and several somewhat cheap (net) over layers. imo, a major design flaw was the net over layer sewn directly into the zipper - it c